Palestinian woodcarvers have been
working at this family run business in
Bethlehem for almost 150 years but this
Christmas the war on Gaza and subsequent
increase of Israeli military raids
across the occupied West Bank has forced
tourists to stay away Hussein hamash has
been carving Christian figurines like
this one for more than three decades he
depends on his job for his family of
six this work is in my blood I love it
and I love my workplace and my fellow
workers the situation is terrible
everywhere the boss is trying to help us
to work by any means but it's hard for
him when business is so bad Ramsey
Zakaria is the fourth generation to run
the business pictures of his
great-grandfather carving wood hang on
the
wall the situation in Bethlehem is hard
because 80% of the economy here depends
on tourism we're trying to keep the
workshop running for the workers because
they all have responsibilities and this
is all they know tourists won't come
here as long as the war goes on it's
terribly hard and sad normally at this
time of the year Bethlehem would be
bustling with hundreds of thousands of
tourists from around the world but the
war on Gaza is keeping them away and
Palestinian business owners here say
they have seen nothing like this ever
before this is what tourists are Afra of
Israel has launched military raids
across the occupied West Bank including
on Bethlehem almost every night since
the war on Gaza started Israel says it's
targeting suspected members of the
Palestinian armed resistance groups but
the Israeli Army has destroyed what's
estimated to be hundreds of millions of
dollars worth of private and public
property and killed almost 300
Palestinians during the
raids this is the almost
1,700 year old church of the Nativity
built at the birthplace of
Jesus this year there are no cues of
excited foreign faces and there's
virtually no one
inside hotels that should be full are
empty or closed souvenir shops
surrounding the ancient Square are
either shut it up or struggling to
remain
open this is the worst year it's ever
been even during bad times we used to
work and there are few tourists now many
shops don't even bother
opening for Hussein his fellow wood
Carvers and thousands of other
Palestinians who depend on the festive
season for their livelihoods there will
be no Christmas this year Charles
staford Al jazer bit laham the occupied
West
Bank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer